DOCS-8072-4.3-tuning-guide-kt (#1407)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/tuning-guide.adoc

= Performance Tuning Guide
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Running Mule applications in their optimally performing state requires a careful review of not only the applications but also the environment where they run. Mule 4 was designed to tune itself for optimal performance depending on several factors; however, this does not prevent your applications from experiencing performance issues because of their construction or dependencies. Similarly, for on-premises installations, the environment itself can be tuned so the Mule application can take full advantage of it. Many variables base the performance of your application, and tuning these variables still requires a trial-and-error process. +

Reviewer: This is kind of a long introduction, so because it comprises two issues, tuning the app and the environment, I suggest breaking it up a bit so that audiences can parse each issue more easily.
I have also suggested some rewording to make cause and effect more clear.
```suggestion
To achieve optimal performance from your Mule applications, you must evaluate both the applications themselves and the environment in which they run. Although Mule 4 is designed to tune itself, your applications might exhibit performance issues due to their initial design and dependencies. +
Similarly, for on-premises installations, you might need to tune the environment itself so that your Mule applications can take full advantage of it. Because many variables influence it, tuning the performance of your application requires some trial and error. +
```

> To make this process easier, the tuning guide highlights performance best practices and the ideal test environments to run applications. These recommendations are collected from the Services Engineering team,  in-house benchmarking efforts by the MuleSoft Performance Engineering, and from the Development team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can simplify performance tuning by using documented best practices and testing your applications in customized environments. The following recommendations come from the Development and Services Engineering teams and benchmarking efforts by MuleSoft Performance Engineering.
```
I reordered the teams based on the order of their provided services: dev first, then service eng., then performance eng?

> == Performance Tuning Recommendations

Reviewer: Note that this text refers to its own title in the cross-ref.

Should this really be...:

== Performance Tuning Summary
Optimizing the performance of your Mule apps requires the following actions:
* Applying tuning recommendations at the application level +
See xref:tuning-recommendations.adoc[Performance Tuning Recommendations] for details.
* Considering tuning prerequisites and best practices before testing +
See xref:tuning-test-validations.adoc[Performance Test Validations] for details.
* Monitoring performance during testing to determine the resources required by the Mule runtime engine (Mule) +
See xref:tuning-monitoring.adoc[Performance Monitoring] for details.

Optimize the performance of your Mule apps by applying tuning recommendations at the application level.

See xref:tuning-recommendations.adoc[Performance Tuning Recommendations] for details.

== Performance Test Validations

Learn about the prerequisites and best practices before you start testing the performance of your Mule apps.

See xref:tuning-test-validations.adoc[Performance Test Validations] for details.

== Performance Monitoring

Monitor the resource consumed by the Mule runtime engine (Mule) and know what resources have been exhausted during the tests.

> See xref:tuning-monitoring.adoc[Performance Monitoring] for details.

Reviewer: See suggestion above for consolidating these into one subtopic, depending on whether this whole text is followed by peer subtopics.
If not, consider directly following "The following recommendations come from the Development and Services Engineering teams and benchmarking efforts by MuleSoft Performance Engineering:" with the list?
